.TH B2PFTEST 1 "26 July 2020" "B2PF 0.00"
.SH NAME
b2pftest - a program for testing the B2PF presentation forms library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.rs
.sp
.B b2pftest "[options] [input file [output file]]"
.sp
\fBb2pftest\fP is a test program for the B2PF presentation forms library. This
document describes the features of the test program; for details of the B2PF
library function calls and their options, see the
.\" HREF
\fBb2pf\fP
.\"
documentation.
.P
The input for \fBb2pftest\fP is a sequence of lines, each of which is a UTF-8
string to be processed by the library. Although the input is always UTF-8, if
the \fB-16\fP or \fB-32\fP option is set, the input is converted to UTF-16 or
UTF-32, respectively, before processing, and the output from the library is
then translated back to UTF-8 before being written out. There are also command
lines for setting options and controlling some special actions.
.
.
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.rs
.TP 10
\fB-8\fP
Call the library in UTF-8 mode; this is the default.
.TP 10
\fB-16\fP
Call the library in UTF-16 mode.
.TP 10
\fB-32\fP
Call the library in UTF-32 mode.
.TP 10
\fB-F\fP <\fIdirectory-list\fP>
Search the given colon-separated list of directories for rules files, before
searching the default directory that was set up when B2PF was built.
.TP 10
\fB-help\fP
Output a brief summary these options and then exit.
.TP 10
\fB-q\fP
Do not output the version number of \fBb2pftest\fP at the start of execution.
.TP 10
\fB-version\fP
Output the B2PF version number and then exit.
.P
Only one of \fB-8\fP, \fB-16\fP, or \fB-32\fP may be specified.
.
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.rs
.sp
If \fBb2pftest\fP is given two filename arguments, it reads from the first and
writes to the second. If the first name is "-", input is taken from the
standard input. If \fBb2pftest\fP is given only one argument, it reads from
that file and writes to stdout. Otherwise, it reads from stdin and writes to
stdout. When the input is a terminal, \fBb2pftest\fP prompts for each line of
input with ">". Leading white space in all lines is ignored.
.P
When \fBb2pftest\fP is built, a configuration option can specify that it
should be linked with the \fBlibreadline\fP or \fBlibedit\fP library. When this
is done, if the input is from a terminal, it is read using the \fBreadline()\fP
function. This provides line-editing and history facilities. The output from
the \fB-help\fP option states whether or not \fBreadline()\fP will be used.
.
.
.SH "COMMAND LINES"
.rs
.sp
A line that begins (after optional white space) with # is interpreted as a
command line. If # is followed by a space or an exclamation mark, the line is
treated as a comment, and ignored. Otherwise, the following commands are
recognized:
.sp
  #context_create "\fIname\fP"
.sp
This should normally be the first non-comment input. It causes a B2PF context
to be created. This becomes the current context that is used for subsequent
calls to \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP. If these is an existing context, it is
freed before creating the new one. If the name is not an empty string, a rules
file with that name is sought in the directories specified by the \fB-F\fP
option (if given) and the default rules direcory. For example:
.sp
  #context_create "Arabic"
.sp
If the name is an empty string, an empty context is created.
.sp
  #context_extend \fIrule text\fP
.sp
This command passes the rest of the input line to the
\fBb2pf_context_extend()\fP function, which adds the information to the current
context. By starting from an empty context, all the context information can be
set up this way, without reading a rules file. Details of rules files are given
in the
.\" HREF
\fBb2pf\fP
.\"
documentation.
.sp
  #input_backchars
.sp
Pass the B2PF_INPUT_BACKCHARS option when calling \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP.
.sp
  #input_backcodes
.sp
Pass the B2PF_INPUT_BACKCODES option when calling \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP.
.sp
  #output_backchars
.sp
Pass the B2PF_OUTPUT_BACKCHARS option when calling \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP.
.sp
  #output_backcodes
.sp
Pass the B2PF_OUTPUT_BACKCODES option when calling \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP.
.sp
 #reset
.sp
Reset all the options for \fBb2pf_format_string()\fP.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.rs
.sp
\fBb2pf\fP(3)
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.rs
.sp
.nf
Philip Hazel
Cambridge, England.
.fi
.
.
.SH REVISION
.rs
.sp
.nf
Last updated: 26 July 2020
Copyright (c) 2020 Philip Hazel
.fi
